honesty is not a virtue that you
cultivate
as an end in itself you don't cultivate
honesty just for the sake of being
honest
you practice honesty you get
good at being honest you build up
the musculature of the mind necessary
to really be honest with others because
it changes
real world outcomes right not just
honesty with your boyfriend girlfriend
husband wife
not just honesty with your parents you
know even
in a situation like a university campus
you can look back at different conflicts
you had with professors
and ask yourself what if i had really
been honest
you know what if i had given it 110 what
if i really let him know
the reasons why i was dropping the
course and i've done that i've done that
with professors
now i was an old man i did not have that
strength of character i had none of that
practice
of being honest back when i was 19 years
old
but when i was in university at age 36
i can remember going to talk to the
professor and saying look
this is how many hours i put into this
assignment
this is how many hours i have to put
into study chinese i can't stay in your
course
it's too much work for too low a grade
i can't do this this isn't sustainable
where i was really honest about what my
reasons were for dropping out of course
and i think that having three times
two of the professors offered me
positively and insisted that instead of
taking their course
i do an independent study credit where
i'd write the essay
on my own i wouldn't have to come to
class and i wouldn't have to do other
smaller assignments that would be a
waste of my time
and of the three the third he had a
complete meltdown
he completely freaked out i could tell
you what he said it was a little bit
interesting
but he just he just flew off the handle
and he was very very upset
he was very hurt that i dropped the
course and um
[Music]
i think there were maybe six students in
that class and i did
most of the talking i mean it was
supposed to be a seminar where everyone
speaks equally but uh you know i'm a big
personality
my absence was noticed by all uh when i
when i dropped that course
and for that professor i just mentioned
he was retiring it was the final course
he was teaching
on his life's work and i think it
actually meant a lot to him that i was
there and i was doing the readings and i
was asking intelligent questions
that i was participating as it was
before i dropped that course okay you're
never going to get
another chance to be honest right if i
had been
phony with that guy there are a million
ways to talk your talk yourself out of
that
situation there are million there are a
million ways to lie
and there's only one way to tell the
truth right
and if you pass that up if you don't
tell the truth then you'll never know
and honestly brings about very different
you know real world outcomes okay
what you see in the background is an
inflatable
mattress okay i don't know if it's ever
been on camera before
i think we put it away or deflated it
times when
recording youtube videos okay i bought
this
deflatable mattress because my
girlfriend and i
have some have come so close to breaking
up
repeatedly we have so many times made
the decision
okay let's end the relationship you'll
move out
tomorrow or next week or as soon as
possible but until then
you need a separate bed sleep on this
mat it's a really good air mattress by
the way
um if anyone's visiting if i have guests
use this air mattress okay
and it's a it's inflated again today
it's inflating indeed because this
morning
again we had the conversation where i
said to her
i don't want this relationship to go on
anymore i want you to move out
i want to end this relationship all
right and the truth is
i have been saying that again and again
for
two and a half years i did not have that
number memorized
um the last time we went through this
about a month ago a month and a half ago
i think
i looked up the email record and i was
like when
when was it that i first said look i
have no hope in the futures relationship
this is bad for me this is not working
this is wrong i want to break up
and it turns out it's been fully two and
a half years that i've been saying to my
girlfriend look
um you know this is the this is the
minimum
standard i need you to live up to this
is what i need to try to this is the
effort i need you to make
and if you can't do it let me go like
let me move on let me start a new life
and she has sometimes begged
and sometimes demanded a second chance
you know sometimes with tears sometimes
with other
methods and modes but this has been two
and a half years of me trying to end the
relationship trying to break up again
and again and again
and my girlfriend asking for a second
chance or a tenth chance or a 20th
chance
again and again and again and with one
exception
i think we've never discussed this and
you believe there was one breakup
where i did come and talk about it on
camera and then when we got back
together again there wasn't any real
discussion of what was going on or how
that
happened why okay look
motivation is a bit of an overly vague
buzzword all right right now i'm trying
to study french again
i don't know how high priority it's
going to be in my life i don't know how
committed to what i am
but i've been taking photographs of my
homework and taking photographs myself
writing out french exercises
and uploading to the internet and other
people tell me
mistakes of me you know other people who
speak more french now you're like oh you
know you got this
fellow wrong got this thing you know i'm
not going to call that
motivation but you know
taking photographs of yourself studying
french
and sharing them with other people and
involving other people
it sure is different from studying
french
all alone right i think it's different
in a
really meaningful way i believe
the difference you can make in your life
by coming on youtube
and talking about why it is you're
breaking up with your girlfriend
or why it is you got back together again
or what the issues are or what the
struggles are
i think that can be a really positive
part of your life i think it could be
really positive part of my
girlfriend's life you know and i think
that this whole relationship will be in
a
way better situation today if we've done
that over the last
four years now or at least over the last
two and a half years now some of you
don't believe me
i mean some of you think of youtube the
same way some people think of instagram
as if the point of youtube is only to
show yourself uh when you're
clean-shaven
i mean i'm not here i've got stubble
sometimes i've appeared like the point
is only to show yourself
at the most flattering angle at the
most flattering moment like just to
share on instagram
pictures of yourself on a sailboat
diving into the ocean pictures of great
happiness
and accomplishment you know you share a
picture of yourself collecting the
diploma
you know that you studied french but not
the pictures
of you making mistakes along the way
struggling to spell things correctly in
french and having people correct you
all right and i'm saying you know i'm
saying you the opposite
sharing the struggle sharing the
mistakes you make and really talking
about it
and inviting other people to be a
witness to whatever it is you're
up
whatever it is you're trying to do right
you know i think that's so much more
meaningful and so much more constructive
than what people call therapy okay
uh you know my ex-wife and i when the
marriage was falling apart
before we split up we wanted to see a
therapist together
didn't help a goddamn thing it just it
just made me resent more
the indifference of the therapist
frankly and it made me resent
you know what my wife said and what she
didn't say and there i mean
you know you can go to therapy and talk
about your problems and you go to
therapy and lie about your problems and
cover up your problems make it sound
good for the therapist you know
it could have other effects okay there
was an earlier point in this
relationship where my
my girlfriend went in and talked to a
therapist all right
i in my opinion you know
the potential to really learn something
to really resolve to do better to do
something different
i think it can come from recording
yourself
and even if just just you go back
and watch it later right if just you go
back and say oh yeah that was me when i
was a student learning chinese
that was me when i was learning french
that was me struggling with that
um i think for a lot of us
this can be part of developing you know
the musculature
the mental muscles necessary
to really be honest and have
some sense of pride and some sense of
dignity
not in the accomplishments but in the
struggle
all right life is not just about
jumping off a sailboat and at this point
i feel like we've been so dishonest with
the audience
in the last four years i don't know what
you guys think of my relationship i
don't know what you guys
think of my life the last time we broke
up whatever is a month ago two months
ago now
i wrote to several people i consider
friends and said well you know we're
finally doing it like we're finally
gonna buy airplane tickets and
like it's not just the inflatable
mattress like okay melissa and i really
finally bring him
and they will they roll back and said
like wow i thought you had this amazing
positive relationship i had no idea
these are people who watch my youtube
videos and know me
talk to me for years
now i'm not out here trying to deceive
anyone
right but you can see the way in which
this can become a powerful source
of self-deception all right
um
who do you want to be who do you want to
become
what are you willing to do to make it
happen so
mostly questions we just ask of
ourselves in isolation
when you've got a relationship when
you're defining a relationship
when you're redefining a relationship
when you're breaking up and getting back
together again
i think the question you've got to ask
is
who do we want to be who do we want to
become
and now what are we willing to do
to make it happen